.TH Rules   RULES blackjack
.SH
GOAL
No matter how many players are in the game, you are only playing against
the dealer. After the round ends, you add together the values of the
cards in your hand, and the dealer does the same.

.RS 4
.TP
*
If your score is over twenty one, you lose.

.TP
*
If your score is under twenty one and the dealer's score is over twenty
one, you win.

.TP
*
Otherwise, the one with the score closest to twenty one wins.

.TP
*
If both you and the dealer have the same score and neither are over
twenty one, you tie.

.SH
THE DECK
The deck is constructed from standard fifty-two card decks.

.P
By default, six decks are
shuffled together at the start of the game. A random number of cards are
then removed from the deck to make it more difficult to count cards. If
play continues to the point that deck is exhausted, a new deck is created
in the same manner.

.SH
SCORING
Cards are scored in the following manner:

.RS 4
.TP
*
Cards two through ten are scored equal to their number of pips. For
example: a seven of hearts is worth seven points, and a two of clubs
is worth two points.

.TP
*
Face cards (the jack, queen, and king) are worth ten points.

.TP
*
Aces can be worth one or eleven points. The owner of the hand the ace
is in chooses which value to use when scoring the ace.

.SH
BETTING
Before each hand begins, the player must choose how much to bet and make
the bet. By default the bet must be at least twenty but no more than 500.

.SH
DEALING
Each player is dealt two cards face up. The dealer is dealt two cards
face down.
