.TH Rules   RULES blackjack
.SH
GOAL
No matter how many players are in the game, you are only playing against
the dealer. After the round ends, you add together the values of the
cards in your hand, and the dealer does the same.

.RS 4
.TP
*
If your score is over twenty one, you lose.

.TP
*
If your score is under twenty one and the dealer's score is over twenty
one, you win.

.TP
*
Otherwise, the one with the score closest to twenty one wins.

.TP
*
If both you and the dealer have the same score and neither are over
twenty one, you tie.

.SH
THE DECK
The deck is constructed from standard fifty-two card decks.

.P
By default, six decks are
shuffled together at the start of the game. A random number of cards are
then removed from the deck to make it more difficult to count cards. If
play continues to the point that deck is exhausted, a new deck is created
in the same manner.

.SH
SCORING
Cards are scored in the following manner:

.RS 4
.TP
*
Cards two through ten are scored equal to their number of pips. For
example: a seven of hearts is worth seven points, and a two of clubs
is worth two points.

.TP
*
Face cards (the jack, queen, and king) are worth ten points.

.TP
*
Aces can be worth one or eleven points. The owner of the hand the ace
is in chooses which value to use when scoring the ace.

.SH
BETTING
Before each hand begins, the player must choose how much to bet and make
the bet. By default the bet must be at least twenty but no more than 500.

.SH
DEALING
Each player is dealt two cards face up. The dealer is dealt two cards.
One card is face up, and the other card is face down.

.SH
NATURAL
If a player is dealt a card worth ten points and an ace, they have a
"natural." If the dealer also has a natural, they tie. Otherwise the
player is awarded one and a half times their bet.

.SH
GAME PLAY
After the deal, play starts with the first player. They must chose
whether to "hit" or "stand." If a player hits, the dealer deals them
the top card from the deck, which is then added to the total of their
had. While the total is less than twenty-one, the player can choose to
hit again. If the total is greater than twenty-one, they go "bust."

.IP
Once a player reaches a score of twenty-one, chooses to stand, or goes
bust, their turn ends. Play proceeds to the next player.

.SS
Splitting Pairs
If the player is dealt two cards with the same denomination (ace, type
of face card, or number of pips), they may be splitt into two separate
hands. The player must bet an additional amount equal to their initial
bet. The player then chooses to hit or stand on each hand separately,
just as though each was a normal hand.

.IP
If the player splits a pair of aces, the deal only gives one additional
card to each hand. The player may not hit to receive additional cards.
If either hand is given a card with a value of ten, it does not count
as a natural.

.SS
Doubling Down
If the player's initial total after the deal is nine, ten, or eleven,
the player may choose to "double down." The player places an additional
bet equal to their initial bet. The player is given one additional card,
and then play proceeds to the next player.

.IP
If the player starts with two fives, they may chose to split or double
down. They cannot do both.

.SS
Insurance
Insurance can be purchased when the dealer's face up card is an ace. It
is a side bet that the face down card has a value of ten. The amount of
the bet can be up to half of the player's original bet for the hand. If
the face down card has a value of ten, the player wins the bet and is
awarded double the money of the bet. Otherwise, the player loses the
bet.

.SH
DEALER PLAY
After all of the player's turns are finished, play proceeds to the
dealer. The dealer's face down card is turned up. While the value of
the dealer's hand is less than 17, the dealer must hit. Once the value
of the dealer's hand is 17 or greater, the dealer must stand.